He helped his father in the paint shop at the time.
And also, there was a, he called it a livery stable
here. And Daddy said he loved horses. And he said
that the man who had the livery stable would hire
Daddy to go out. People who came to town wouldn't
have transportation sometimes. And so they'd
rent a buggy, a horse and buggy. Well, they'd hire
Daddy to go along to see they didn't abuse the horse
and buggy And he said he'd just ride all over the
country, you know, and had a good time. Said he
loved doing that. And I think that's interesting
to me that he did that. Now, some of those things
I've almost forgotten that Daddy, in the last
years, I'd ask him about, you know. He told about
how they'd go by relay, you know, they'd take some
horses to, like, to Normandy or somewhere and then
change horses and go on. And he told about that,
too, in his lifetime. They did that. That was
interesting. And I rode in a Surrey with a fringe on
top. Yeah, oh yeah. I was at a meeting recently, and
I said, I rode in a Surrey with a fringe on the top,
and my sister said, you did not? And I said, well, I
certainly did. I said, the Swinecoats had one
across the street from us on 29th Street. She says,
well, I was going to say, ever since you were born,
we had a car. I said, but these people have a... But
our cars were in our barns then. We didn't have
garages, you know. Do you ever remember anything
when you were, you know, little or anything, you
know, father and uncle remember that was really a
luxury or something that, you know, something
uncommon? Like, let's say, you know, back then,
you know, like women, it was, you know, silk or
something like that and garments, you know,
trying to get at. Something that you thought was
really something that was a... That I thought was a
luxury? Yeah. Yeah. It
was something I thought of the other day. Several
of us were talking about what we used to think were
rich people, you know? Oh, yeah. And my husband
said, well, the people that he thought were rich
when he was a boy were those who ordered... He
worked in the grocery store, and those who
ordered... asparagus were the rich people. Let me
see. We think about that. We all were laughing
about who we thought were rich. He said nobody but
rich people used to eat asparagus.
What was the more wealthier people in Bryan's
College Station here, what was their type of work?
What was the difference in their? What was their
type of income? Oh, I think most of them had
property down there.
Or some of them were owners of stores. And some of
the doctors were well. The doctors here, I always
thought were well off. They're famous and dressed
well and had a lot of advantages. Did you ever hear
anybody say about, you know, when the first car
they ever saw come through dry or something like
that? No. Daddy owned the second car that was ever
in dry. Oh, really? What kind was it? But he owned it
second-hand. Uh-huh. I believe it was an EMF. An
EMF? I remember the EMF. He kept several cars, and
we wished he'd get rid of them, and now I wish we had
them. Yeah. Oh, they were marvelous. They sat way
up high, and they had these little lanterns on
them. You know, he kept them in the garage things.
When he'd get a new car, he'd keep those old ones.
Daddy liked things. He understood about things
like that. We talk him out of it, you know, now. And
he had a Flanders. I don't know if you ever heard of a
Flanders. No, I sure haven't. That was a Flanders
Roadster. Yeah. It was cute. I think it was sort of
like a sports roadster, if I remember. But I
remember those two were some of the first cars that
ever came to mind. They were, I guess then they had
gas pumps or something like that. I don't remember
where we, everybody, everybody mended
their own tires.
Nobody, as far as I know, mended your tire for you.
And they have, Daddy always patched his own tires.
And that was real exciting. And he could do
anything. And he didn't like, didn't mind us
watching him. You know, we'd stand around and he'd
patch this tire and he'd put this glue on it, you
know, and. Then he'd blow it up and see if it worked,
you know. Oh, men could do anything, you know,
then. And they practically had to, you know,
survive. That was interesting, though. I think.
And then they put it in water to see if air was coming
out, you know. Sure, yeah, just like we do nowadays
with bicycle tires. Those things just entertain
kids, you know, to watch that. And Mother had a
washing machine that Daddy bought her one time,
and that was the funniest thing you ever saw. It
had... wooden pegs in it like the end of a
broomstick. And you turn it around and it was lots
harder work than washing by hand. And it didn't do
any good anyway. It was a wooden tub. I remember
that. And then I remember too we had, everybody had
a cow or two. Everybody lived far enough apart. Oh
really? You didn't live jam up against each other.
And so you had a lot and where we lived We lived at the
other end of Haswell. I keep moving back to Haswell
here. And when I, later after we left this house,
that house. And we had two or three lots around
there. You know, big areas. And Daddy loved to
garden. He worked in the office in the daytime at
night. He had a beautiful garden. He'd plow by me
and my wife. Was it a flower garden or more of a
vegetable garden? Well, we had flowers in the
yard. Pear trees and plum trees. Oh, I like pears.
And we had grapes, and we had blueberries, and
Daddy grew lettuce and every kind of vegetable.
And then he grew peanuts and kept them in the barn,
and the kids would go in there and get those peanuts
out. Did a lot of people have their own gardens like
that? Oh, everybody had their own garden.
Everybody. So the grocery store just carried the
main staple. I guess so, uh-huh. Everybody had
their own garden. You remember the prices of
things as compared to now, way back then, that your
father talked about? No, I can't remember that too
much. Because I know, you know, I remember my dad
telling, my grandpa telling us about the prices
and stuff. I don't have any idea what the price is.
It's really... And I know somebody was saying what
the price of bread was in relationship and what the
size of the loaf was. Well, I can't even remember if
the loaves were smaller or bigger. Mm-hmm. But I
remember Daddy used to buy five loaves a day. Five
loaves a day. I said, Daddy, it looks like that
would have made you go broke. But they must have
been smaller than that. Sure, they must have been
pretty. And they'd be hot. We'd get them at that
bakery. Yeah, uh-huh. They'd be hot. Was Brian
mainly just centered around this one big street,
you know, or was it kind of a network type, you know,
or streets, you know, like we've been studying the
different kinds of settlements, you know, they
have linear settlements that were along a basic
mode of, you know, a major mode of travel, you know,
such as a railroad or road. Yeah, they were just
main streets, but then there were always people
scattered out between Brian and college, you
know. Did they ever have a city square or anything
like that? I don't think you're at all, Brian
didn't have a city square unless the courthouse
would have been counted one, and I don't think we
ever, you know, we didn't have one. Was the
courthouse counted right at the center of the
city, though? No. It wasn't? See, downtown,
usually the square is in the middle of the stores,
and we always had the courthouse on this side.
That's interesting, isn't it? Yeah, that is. That
really is.
You remember talking about different, the
different parts of Bryan as, you know, like upper
Bryan, lower Bryan, stuff like that. Was it ever
termed like that? What do you mean by that? You
know, like... Like the caste system or like the...
Well, like, you know, I'm going into town or I'm
going, you know, you're... Well, it was just all
one town. And, like, when we lived in this house,
that was the main part of town. On 29th Street. On
the west side was the main part of town. Then it came
east. Because of the highway? I don't know why.
Well, I know Highway 6. I never have understood
why, but it did. Highway 6 came through, and that
shot everything over towards Texas Avenue.
You've got me interested in this, and I ask my
sister a lot of questions. So today I said, let's go
by and see where that house was because I want to be
sure what the address is. And she says, all right,
and I'll show you the house we lived in before. You
were born, and I said, you mean that's still
standing? I said, I didn't even know it. We went by
there, and it is beautiful. The people who have
bought it have kept it up, and it's just perfect.
That house is just gorgeous. It's way over on the
west side of town, and they've got the yard
beautiful, and they still have that gingerbread
on it that's in the picture, you know what I mean? I
don't have a picture of it, but anyway. Isn't that
wonderful that somebody's kept a house like that?
Yeah, that's... And she said, I'm going to go over
there and ask them to let me see it. Because I said,
the lady we bought this house from moved to
California. She came back and we told her to come
over and see us. And so she says, oh, she's so glad to
get to come back and see us. Well, how big is your
family? How many brothers and sisters? There were
five. Five of you all? Five children. Two of them
are dead. My two brothers are dead. They died when
we were like, since 19... Sixty-nine, one brother
in 1973. And you and your sister? Three sisters. My
two sisters live here. They both live here in
Bryan? Uh-huh. What do they do? Montgomery works
for the federal government, and Ms. Hudson lost
her husband about two years ago, and she travels.
She's going to Europe next summer, and see some of
Northern Europe. Last summer they went to Japan
and several places she'd been to, but she liked
this man that takes them, and his wife. They're
just wonderful, pure guys. And then she went to the
Middle East with them one time. And before then,
she and her husband had an airstream, and they just
traveled to Mexico and Canada with that group. Do
you ever remember your father ever talking about
the impact when A&M was opened? Did it have any type
of impact on the city, on O'Brien at that time, as
far as having a college there? I don't know. You
know, when I was in high school, Daddy didn't want
me to go with Brian Morris, but he didn't mind me
going with Aggies. Isn't that funny? He was an
Aggie, wasn't he? No, he wasn't. See, he studied
law just on his own. Oh, I see. But he didn't mind my
having to go with Aggies, but I thought that was
funny. Now kids go with... You know, the Aggies
were older than I was, but he said he just thought
they were more responsible.
Mostly I went with Aggies rather than... I went
with one Bryan boy. High school boy. That's
interesting. Everybody didn't have steadies
then. You just went with everybody that asked you.
That was fun then. How was the... I know it's quite
different now when you take someone out on a date.
You had to go over and meet their parents and all
that stuff. Was it pretty conservative back then?
Yes. And of course, all the Aggies were broke, and
none of them had cars, so they were safe.
You walked to the picture show. Where was the main
theater, the picture show? It was down where it is
now.
It's exactly where it was, the palace. Was that the
main... It was the main one, and then they had the
Dixie and the Queen, and I don't even know what
shows they have now. That's how much I know. Yeah,
it's quite different now. I don't know whether
they have those two shows or not, the Queen and the
Dixie. See, they had, the queen used to have good
shows, and the palace would have good shows, and
the Dixie had, I don't know, maybe things kids went
to on Saturday or something, but one of the first,
the very first picture I ever saw that was in color
was Madame Butterfly. And, you know, I believe
that was hand-colored, if I remember right. That
was years ago. Years ago. Before the red card
pictures. When do you remember the first TV you
had?
I believe they got TV while we were overseas.
Because I wouldn't have it in the house for years. I
didn't want one. Why do you still want to be
bothered? I finally... Well, I remember way back
then everyone used to... We just listened to the
news mostly. Well, I remember before they had the
TV, a lot of people, the family would sit around the
radio and listen to it. I don't know. We've always
been a pretty active family and we've always been
doing something. Besides we're either reading or
studying or painting or doing something else. So
we didn't ever listen to the radio too much. I
listened to the radio during the daytime. All the
time? No. What do you do right now? Oh. I'm sorry, I
forgot. Well, what I've been doing, was why Jen
said this, was I said,
in 1973, I went to Blinn College. I decided I was
going to go back to college. And so I went back,
and... There was another woman that was about 14
years younger than I was, and she was so glad
because she says she was the oldest, and now
somebody older than her was going. And so she said
she was thrilled to death to have somebody old.
Grandma, you know. I took English in history.
English in history. I thought it was going to go on,
but my house kept getting dirtier and dirtier. You
know, I needed to get things organized. So I did
that. Well, then I decided for about three years I
was going to start studying family history and get
it so that my son and all of them can get their hands
on it. You know, that's why you and I sent you to me.
I've been trying to get these facts in a way that...
some of these young people are beginning to be
interested, and unless somebody does it now, it's
going to be too late. Was there any type of, I guess
the only type of industry they really had was
cotton here then, right? I believe so, yeah.
That's just about all, as far as I know. I know that
you know what... It just was a little, just a small
town. I used to, I remember when we went up to
Wisconsin, that's where all my family's from.
They used to let us smoke. I have three brothers and
we used to go over in the attic in my grandpa's house
and just spend hours up in that attic looking at old
stuff. When my grandfather on my mother's side
passed away she brought back a lot of his stuff and
it was a will dated 1793.
a will, and it said, you know, to my first son, I
bequeathed. You know, it was really... And, you
know, they used to make family trees, too. They
used to have these big old lists, and they'd make up
a family tree, you know. Thy first son, you know,
thus named. And it was really interesting, you
know, that's why... What name was that? Was that
Friedli? Bradfield. That was my mother's name.
That's British, isn't it? Yeah, I believe so.
Sounds kind of British. Yeah. And Friedli is
German. My grandfather on my dad's side
immigrated from Switzerland. They were real
German. My dad grew up in a little town. He was born
in a cheese factory. He was? Yeah. He grew up around
cheese, butter, and milk. When he went to the
University of Wisconsin, he studied dairy
science. That's what brought my parents to
Mexico.
A man named Murchison was trying to start a dairy
industry down in Monterrey. Well, not in
Monterrey, Mexico. They lived in Tampico. And
that's why they were down there. And they lived
there for 13 years. And me and my younger brother
were born there while they lived in Monterrey. And
you pretty good speak Spanish. Yeah, uh-huh. My
son loves Spanish. Right now, my mom's a Spanish
teacher. She teaches Spanish in high school. They
just left for Europe. My dad works for Summers Drug
Stores, Rexall Drug Stores in San Antonio. They
have a big drug convention in Switzerland. And
that's where all my dad's relatives are. And he's
going to see them for the very first time. And they
just left last Monday, in fact. They're going to be
gone for three weeks. Well, that's good. Yeah. I
know a lot about my parents' background up in
Wisconsin. My mom, she's a DAR. She wanted to, but
she never had enough time to join it. But one of her
ancestors was a corporal in the American
Revolution and stuff like that. Well, my husband
is from Mississippi. So while I was making a bunch
of family trees for my family, trying to get it,
Also, I'm trying to get to all my nephews and
nieces. I'm trying to just make a little booklet
for each of them, and those who want it can preserve
it, and that way it won't be, if one house burns up,
it won't all be gone. So I took my husband's family,
and I started, I hadn't even looked at his, and I
started looking at it, and I found out that two of
his ancestors married each other, and both of
their fathers were in the... Revolutionary War.
And I said, hey, you're more elite than I am. And he
says, I'm going to join the D.A.R. when we get to
life. Because he had a daughter of one of the
Revolutionary soldiers and a son. Some of his
relatives had looked it up, but I hadn't bothered
with it because until recently, I didn't have time
to fool around with it. What kind of background did
your husband come from? Oh, his father had a
grocery store in Mississippi. And did his father
come out here, or did No, my husband came through in
1928, after he graduated from high school, and he
saw A&M. He did like my grandfather's son. He saw
A&M, he decided to go to A&M. And so I met him when he
was a freshman. Yeah, all the way from
Mississippi, I didn't even know. To Texas. And he
heard about A&M in Mississippi? He heard about it,
and he decided he'd look it over. He looked it over.
He came and... So I don't know what, do they still on
the freshman have a, I don't think they do that.
They had a white band they made him wear on the
sleeve. And so I took his white band off the last
night he was a freshman. He was 18 and I was 15, I
think. 18, huh? Oh, wow. Want me to let your dog in?
He graduated real early. Want me to go ahead and let
your dog in? No, let it go. Yeah, I didn't, you know,
back then, I didn't even think A&M was that known,
that much known about it. Well, for some reason, he
liked it, and he still likes it. That's great. You
can't say it. He doesn't want anybody sitting in
against him. We laugh, and anybody comes, he takes
them on a tour. I said they ought to make him pinky
down. Have you ever heard of pinky down? Yes, I
have. Well, my husband's dad is pinky down. He
takes them all and shows them all the fat pigs. He's
in the mechanical engineering department. Oh.
But he shows them the engineering things, and he
shows them all everything. Yeah, well, see,
I'm... We're four brothers, and my oldest brother
graduated in 72, and my other brother graduated in
74, and I'll graduate next year in 76. And my other
brother's a freshman right now. And you all went to
A&M? Uh-huh. My dad went to the University of
Wisconsin, but he feels like he's in A&M. Does he?
Because all his sons have gone to A&M, and they
really love it. Well, that's good. Your husband's
grandparents, were they from around the
Mississippi area? Let me see. What? I'll have to
find out about his immediate grandparents.
His mother's parents were from the town. He can't
find one on the Mississippi. And his mother's
father was a teacher there. I think he was a county
official at times. I've forgotten. I have to go
look that up. I'm going to look up his side after I
get through with mine. But anyway, he has a lot of
relatives there. Do you remember,
what's his name, I can't remember his name, this
man right here. W.H. Minkert. Minkert. Did both of
his parents die? Both of them died. Both of them
died? I think he was about 12. Oh, really? And he had
a guardian appointed. This is something that
someone told me and now there's nobody to ask. You
know, like maybe Daddy would tell me something and
somebody else, he didn't tell them that. So when I
try to verify it, you know, they'll say, no, we
didn't talk about that. I'd ask Daddy questions
and different ones would, but maybe we didn't ask
him the same questions. So, but my memory was that
he
decided he wasn't, I don't know if he thought he was
mistreated or what, but anyway, bereft of what his
problem was, but he just left. What kind of a name is
that? M-I-N-K-E-R-T. We can't find anybody past
his parents, you see. They show his parents in the
Bible that he was born to these people. His
father's name was W.H. Manfred II. What did his
father do? We don't know. That's all I know about
him, see, because they died. Daddy would have
known if we had asked him. There wasn't anybody
else in his family? We can't find another Nippert
in the United States. And somebody said that they
are in Holland. That we can find them in Holland.
And he spoke Dutch. He could speak Dutch and
English. And I don't know if he looks Dutch or not. I
can't say that he does. But he does a little bit. And
she's English. And she had a private school here
about 10 years ago. Ms. W.H. Nippert did. They had
in 18... She had a private school, and a lot of, some
of the prominent people sent their children
there. And I asked Daddy why people would send
their children to her private school, and he said
it was like it is now. They were getting too tough,
you know, and they were afraid the children, there
were too many things happening in public schools.
And so she taught it in her home, and she taught it in
Masonic Hall, and I guess it's the same one that's
here now, in the bottom floor of it, and had about 25
pupils. And I know, even in my lifetime, some of
those people would say that she was a really
wonderful teacher. I'm bragging on it, but
anyway, she deserved bragging on it. And they said
that she taught them just wonderful. And see, she
taught her own children, too, and she taught music
also. And I know one time I went with Daddy out to the
cemetery, and he used to have the clearest tie. He
said, my mother was the most wonderful woman in the
world. And he never had talked about her much, so
she must have been pretty wonderful. And Daddy
said one time that he never had a recess in his life.
He said, I never did get to play because Mother
taught school and I had to do all the chores. He
says, the others sloughed off, you know how some
mothers are. And he says, and Daddy was real
conscientious, you know. and he was like this
about everything. If somebody was stuck in the
mud, Daddy would go push them out, and everybody
was stuck in the mud a long time ago, as you said back
then. Daddy would go push them out, and maybe
they'd splatter his clothes when they pushed them
out, and he'd come home all splattered up, and
Mother would say, yeah, that's just like you. They
wouldn't pay for your clothes to be cleaned. Well,
I had to help them get out of the mud, and he just was
always, had somebody he was helping, some family
one time, and our Sunday school class decided we
were going to help them. take a family to help. And
we'd help. Every Christmas, you know, you'd take
somebody and you'd take them fruit and
everything. So we got over there and when we went
inside, well, I saw this lady and she said, she
didn't recognize me at first, I guess, but she
says, I don't know what we'd have done if Mr.
Minkert hadn't been helping us. And says he's just
kept us alive. Well, what Daddy would do was he'd
try to find work for him. Was it pretty hard to find
anything? Well, this was a man that was older, and
he'd married a younger woman and had this little
boy, and his health wasn't too good, but he was a
worker. And so Daddy, if he couldn't find anything
for him to do at his yard, he'd come over and have him
work in our yard and pay him to work in our yard. You
know, we don't need life. Maybe we didn't even need
him, you know. But Daddy didn't want to hurt his
pride. That's really great. And he also, one day he
says, you know, little boy's about four or five
years old. He says, I paid him. He says, that's the
first time he ever got paid. He says, I bet he'll
remember that all his life. He was like that. He
always said, he and Mother, and Mother would fuss,
but she did too. They both always had a... two,
three families. We weren't that rich, but that was
the way to go. That's nice. They were unusual
people, really. You said you went to East
Pakistan? Yeah. For aiming? My husband was, I
guess you'd call a counterpart there to the
president of the engineering college there. He
helped him organized different courses there.
And he wrote a book once over there and donated it to
them. I typed it and he read it eight times. Didn't
get any money for it. I'm a built-in secretary.
Everybody asks me what I do. I'm a built-in
secretary. I keep killing myself because I should
have taken typing in high school. You can still
take it. I just got to find the time. But boy, this
year especially, I've had three term papers in my
life. You've got to take it for about six weeks.
That's all I need. Sometime after you get out. But
it sure would have helped you in college. Oh, boy.
Well, I might learn this summer. I'll go to summer
camp for the Army. Yeah. You can teach yourself if
you get a book. That's what my mom already bought it
for me. If you just take five minutes a day. Well,
anyway, he went over there to help. A&M had a
cooperating program with them. And they sent
somebody to the engineering college, the
agricultural college, to a teacher's college.
Let me see what else. Anyway, we were with the
engineering college, and so, you know, we mostly,
we didn't try to be a place with many people outside
the college, because that kept you busy, because
they'd invite you, you know, to the socials. Yeah,
well, how long were you over there? Four years.
Four years. And so we got to know pretty good. Did
you like it over there? Privations, you never
heard of them. I guess you heard of them if you've
been in Mexico then. But they had, see, we went
there in 54, and India and Pakistan were divided in
47. So that was seven years later. And all these
people were like the poor little old Vietnamese.
They were refugees, those in East Pakistan. Most
of them were refugees. And so there was no industry
or anything. And they had come there with just the
clothes on their back. And they were sweet people.
And the man who was our chief servant, you know
everybody has about 10 servants, the man who was
our chief servant could speak five languages. Can
you imagine that having to be a servant? He said,
one time I talked to him, he says, The first time
when I knew I had to be a servant, I hated it.
And I thought, a man that brilliant
hurt my feelings. But he could do anything. I just
remembered that they had a yellow fever epidemic
that came through here in the late 1890s. Maybe
that was, when you, when I was talking to you, I
thought that's what Uncle Willie died with,
yellow fever. Because back then, yes. Willie
Minkert. Mm-hmm. Daddy said he was very
successful in this grocery store and was young.
But, you know, men branched out early when they had
to. Sure, sure. And so they would become a man and be
on their own when they were real men. Oh, yeah,
nowadays. Well, it's just people have to prepare
longer. They've got changing times
now. I was just thinking of that. Yeah, I thought
that was what I thought. Then I thought, well,
maybe they didn't have yellow fever, but that was
what I thought I remembered. You died from yellow
fever. I thought it was. Probably was. It was some
epidemic. Did you ever know anything about...
them using, uh, navigating on the Brazos River
back here? You probably do, you know? I can't
remember. Because they used to, uh, at one time
they were gonna, you know, make it navigable and
everything, and then right after They decided,
they were working on it, then they had the big
flood, and the Bradstown was rerouted. It took a
different route. Well, I see, I don't know, I can't
remember. And it's, you know, and you don't know,
you can't see it until you look at aerial
photographs of the Bradstown bottom.